WFIRST coronagraph OS5 speckle fields with planets time series and high spatial
sampling: OS5_adi_3_highres

John Krist
Jet Propulsion Laboratory/California Inst. of Technology
3 June 2016

NOTE: This series is the same as OS5_adi_3 but with higher sampling (0.1
lam/D).  Because the images are expected to be resampled, images with noise are
not provided. 

The OS5 sequence begins at the bright star beta UMa with the telescope rolled
+13 deg off nominal. It then goes to the science target, 47 UMa, at +13 deg,
then rolls to -13 deg (negative is clockwise rotation as seen in the image).
Only 47 UMa has planets. 

HLC 20160125 is used that works over a 15% bandpass centered at 550 nm and has
an r = 3-9 lambda/D dark hole field.

The image files are sampled by 0.1 lam_c/D, as given in the headers.  

The *_sequence*.fits files are (x,y,time) datacubes. Each timestep (exposure)
is 1000 sec.  There are 30 timesteps on beta UMa and 50 at each orientation of
47 UMa. The dark hole is assumed to be optimized at the beginning of the beta
Uma visit. These are for the X polarization channel with the wavefront
optimized for that polarization. The SED of the star is accounted for when
generating the speckle fields.

The *_unocculted_psf.fits files contains the image of star in a 1000 sec
exposure with the occulter removed (Lyot stop still included).

The *_planets.fits files show the planets as seen in the coronagraph without
the star. Note that each planet was generated by propagating a tilted wavefront
through the system, so any distortions/occulter effects are included. The
positions relative to the star and contrasts of the planets are given in the
*_planets_contrasts.txt files.

The TOTFLUX header value gives the total photons per 1000 sec exposure from the
star that would be measured in the (infinite extent) image plane if the
coronagraphic occulter, Lyot stop, and field stop were removed. This includes
losses from reflections, filter, polarizer, and CCD QE.  

The *_sequence_*.fits, *_unocculted_psf.fits, and *_planets.fits files
represent the flux from the star or planets measured on the detector in the
given frame exposure time (1000 sec). 

The *_zernikes.txt files contain the Zernike polynomial coefficients
(unobscured Zernikes) in meters RMS wavefront error at each timestep. These are
before DM correction, so they may be of limited use for post-processing.

Focus, tip, & tilt changes are omitted. No pointing or wavefront jitters have
been added.  DM1 is used to control low order wavefront changes based on the
LOWFS measurements.  The DM control has 16 bit stroke resolution and
randomization of the least-significant-bit to avoid spatially-correlated
residual WFE patterns.

The file *_offset_psfs.fits is a (x,y,offset) datacube where the star has been
offset from the occulter center. The corresponding, non-uniform offsets along
the X axis in lambda/D are given in the file *_offset_psfs_offsets.fits. This
is useful for gauging the PSF variation with field position. Near the IWA the
source may appear offset from its actual position on the sky due to the effects
of the occulter.  Note that unlike the other images, these images are
normalized to the flux incident on the primary mirror and include the
coronagraph mask losses but not reflections, filters, QE, etc. The offset PSF
image should be multiplied by the TOTFLUX value from the appropriate image time
series file to represent the actual countrate from the star over the time of an
exposure. 

The file *_psf_peak_map.fits has the PSF peak intensity at each field position
and is used for converting intensity to contrast.  To convert one 1000 sec
image from intensity to contrast, divide the image by TOTFLUX and then divide
the result by *_psf_peak_map.fits. This peak map is set for 0.1 lam/D pixels.
For other samplings it has to be resized and rescaled in intensity to match
peak pixel surface brightness.  

To represent the occulter transmission on the sky, normalize
*_psf_peak_map.fits to it max value.  To represent an extended source,
normalize it to the stellar flux, then convolve it with the
_unocculted_psf.fits image. Then apply the occulter transmission pattern.  This
isn't exact, but it's close enough. Since the unocculted PSF already includes
the losses from the reflections, Lyot stop, etc, there is no need to account
for them separately.


Included files:
---------------

OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_beta_Uma_HLC_sequence.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_beta_Uma_HLC_unocculted_psf.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_beta_Uma_HLC_zernikes.txt

OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_p13deg_HLC_sequence.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_p13deg_HLC_sequence_with_planets.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_p13deg_HLC_planets.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_p13deg_HLC_planets_contrasts.txt
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_p13deg_HLC_unocculted_psf.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_p13deg_HLC_zernikes.txt

OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_m13deg_HLC_sequence.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_m13deg_HLC_sequence_with_planets.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_m13deg_HLC_planets.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_m13deg_HLC_planets_contrasts.txt
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_m13deg_HLC_unocculted_psf.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_47_Uma_roll_m13deg_HLC_zernikes.txt

OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_offset_psfs.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_offset_psfs_offsets.fits
OS5_adi_3_highres_polx_lowfc_random_psf_peak_map.fits



Â© 2016 California Institute of Technology. Government sponsorship acknowledged.

This work was carried out at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, California
Institute of Technology, under a contract with the National Aeronautics and
Space Administration. 

